--- 
layout: cloud_feedbacks 
title: Cloud Feedbacks 
---
# Identifying Robust Cloud Feedbacks in Observations and Models 

![highlight]({{site.baseurl}}/projects/cloud_feedbacks/highlight.svg){:height="200px" width="720"}

---
## Research Highlights

<h4> 2020</h4>

<ul>

<li>Zelinka, M. D., T. A. Myers, D. T. McCoy, S. Po-Chedley, P. M. Caldwell, P. Ceppi, S. A. Klein, and K. E. Taylor, 2020: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/latest-earth-system-models-predict-more-global-warming-their-predecessors" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Latest Earth System Models Predict More Global Warming than their Predecessors</a></li>

</ul> 

<h4> 2019</h4>

<ul>

<li>Caldwell, P. M., M. D. Zelinka, and S. A. Klein, 2019: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/evaluation-proposed-emergent-constraints-climate-sensitivity" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Evaluation of Proposed Emergent Constraints on Climate Sensitivity</a></li>

<li>Hall, A., P. Cox, C. Huntingford, and S. A. Klein, 2019: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/progressing-emergent-constraints-future-climate-change" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Progressing Emergent Constraints on Future Climate Change</a></li>

<li>Terai, C., Y. Zhang, S. Klein, M. Zelinka, C. Chiu, and Q. Min,  2019: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/using-ground-based-observations-understand-how-low-cloud-reflectivity-responds" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Using Ground-Based Observations to Understand How Low Cloud Reflectivity Responds to Warming</a></li>

</ul> 

<h4> 2018</h4>

<ul>

<li>Qu, X., A. Hall, A. M. DeAngelis, M. D. Zelinka, S. A. Klein, H. Su,
B. Tian, and C. Zhai, 2018: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
emergent-constraints-climate-sensitivity-are-linked-shortwave-cloud-
feedback" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">The Emergent Constraints of
Climate Sensitivity are Linked to Shortwave Cloud Feedback</a></li>

<li>Zelinka, M., K. Grise, S. Klein, C. Zhou, A. DeAngelis, and
M. Christensen, 2018: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
drivers-low-cloud-responses-poleward-jet-shifts-observations-models"
rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Drivers of Low Cloud Responses to
Poleward Jet Shifts in Observations & Models</a></li>

</ul>

<h4> 2017</h4>

<ul>

<li>Ceppi, P., F. Brient, M. D. Zelinka, and D. L. Hartmann, 2017: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
review-cloud-feedbacks-climate-models" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank">Review of Cloud Feedbacks in Climate Models</a></li>

<li>DeAngelis, A. M., X. Qu, and A. Hall, 2017: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
model-spread-fast-response-global-precipitation" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank">Model Spread in the Fast Response of Global
Precipitation</a></li>

<li>Klein, S. A., A. Hall, J. R. Norris, and R. Pincus, 2017:  <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
observations-indicate-low-cloud-feedback-positive" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank">Observations Indicate that the Low-Cloud Feedback is
Positive</a></li>

<li>Zelinka, M. D., Randall, D. A., Webb, M. J., & Klein, S. A., 2017:
<a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
clearing-clouds-uncertainty" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Clearing
Clouds of Uncertainty</a></li>

<li>Zhou, C., M. D. Zelinka, and S. A. Klein, 2017:  <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
dependence-cloud-feedback-spatial-pattern-sea-surface-warming"
rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Dependence of Cloud Feedback on the
Spatial Pattern of Sea Surface Warming</a></li>

</ul>


<h4> 2016</h4>

<ul>

<li>Caldwell, P. M., M. D. Zelinka, K. E. Taylor, and K. Marvel, 2016:
<a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/why-
do-climate-models-disagree" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Why Do Models
Disagree?</a></li>

<li>Norris, J. R., R. J. Allen, A. T. Evan, M. D. Zelinka, C. W. O'Dell,
and S. A. Klein, 2016: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
evidence-climate-change-satellite-cloud-record" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank">Evidence for climate change in the satellite cloud
record</a>. </li>

<li>Terai, C. R., S. A. Klein, M. D. Zelinka, 2016: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
will-low-level-clouds-reflect-more-sunlight-warming" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank">Will Low-level Clouds Reflect More Sunlight with
Warming?</a></li>

<li>Zelinka, M. D., C. Zhou, and S. A. Klein, 2016: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
insights-refined-decomposition-cloud-feedbacks" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank">Insights from a Refined Decomposition of Cloud
Feedbacks.</a></li>

<li>Zhou, C., Zelinka, M. D., and S. A. Klein, 2016: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
impact-decadal-cloud-variations-earth%E2%80%99s-energy-budget"
rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Impact of Decadal Cloud Variations on the
Earth's Energy Budget.</a></li>

</ul>


<h4> 2015</h4>

<ul>

<li>Brient, F., T. Schneider, Z. Tan, S. Bony, X. Qu, and A. Hall, 2015:
<a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
higher-climate-sensitiviity-linked-shallower-tropical-low-clouds"
rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Higher Climate Sensitivity is Linked to
Shallower Tropical Clouds.</a></li>

<li>DeAngelis, A. M., X. Qu, M. D. Zelinka, and A. Hall, 2015: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
observational-radiative-constraint-hydrologic-cycle-intensification"
rel="nofollow" target="_blank">An observational radiative constraint on
hydrologic cycle intensification.</a></li>

<li>Klein, S. A. and A. Hall, 2015: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/do-
emergent-constraints-help-predict-future-climate" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank">Do Emergent Constraints Help Predict Future Climate?</a>
</li>

<li> Marvel, K., M. D. Zelinka, S. A. Klein, C. Bonfils, P. M. Caldwell,
C. Doutriaux, B. D. Santer, and K. E. Taylor, 2015: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
identifying-human-fingerprint-observed-cloud-trends" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank">Identifying the Human Fingerprint in Observed Cloud
Trends</a></li>

<li>Qu, X., A. Hall, S. A. Klein and P. M. Caldwell, 2015:<a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
tropical-inversion-will-strengthen-warming-climate" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank"> The Tropical Inversion will Strengthen in a Warming
Climate.</a></li>

<li>Qu, X., A. Hall, S. A. Klein, and A. M. DeAngelis, 2015: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
positive-tropical-marine-low-cloud-cover-feedback-inferred-cloud-
controlling" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Positive tropical marine
low-cloud cover feedback inferred from cloud-controlling
factors.</a></li>

<li>Zhou, C., M. D. Zelinka, A. Dessler, and S. A. Klein, 2015: <a
href="https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
relationship-between-interannual-and-long-term-cloud-feedbacks"
rel="nofollow" target="_blank">The relationship between inter-annual and
long-term cloud feedbacks.</a></li>

<li>Zhou, C., A. E. Dessler, M. D. Zelinka, P. Yang, and T. Wang, 2015:
<a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
cirrus-clouds-represent-important-component-cloud-feedback"
rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Cirrus Cloud Represent an Important
Component of the Cloud Feedback</a></li>

</ul>


<h4> 2014</h4>

<ul>

<li>Caldwell, P. M.,  C. S. Bretherton, M. D. Zelinka,  S. A. Klein, B.
D. Santer, & B. M. Sanderson, 2014: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/can-
data-mining-help-constrain-climate-sensitivity" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank">Can Data Mining Help Constrain Climate
Sensitivity?</a></li>

<li>Ceppi, P., M. D. Zelinka, and D. L. Hartmann, 2014: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/role
-clouds-shifting-mid-latitude-jet" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">The
Role of Clouds in Shifting the Mid-Latitude Jet</a></li>

<li>Gordon, N. D. and S. A. Klein, 2014: <a
href="http://www.climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
evidence-relationship-between-low-level-cloud-reflectivity-and-
temperature" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Evidence that relationship
between low-level cloud reflectivity and temperature in the current
climate can predict the climate change response</a></li>

<li>Johnston, M. S., Eliasson, S., Eriksson, P., Forbes, R. M.,
Gettelman, A., Raisanen, P., and Zelinka, M. D., 2014: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
assessing-model-simulations-deep-convection-novel-compositing-approach"
rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Assessing Model Simulations of Deep
Convection: A Novel Compositing Approach</a></li>

<li>Zelinka, M. D., T. Andrews, P. M. Forster, and K. E. Taylor, 2014:
<a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
detailing-aerosol-cloud-radiation-interactions-using-simple-diagnostics"
rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Detailing Aerosol-Cloud-Radiation
Interactions using Simple Diagnostics</a></li>

</ul>


<h4> 2013</h4>

<ul>

<li>Johnston M. S., S. Eliasson, P. Eriksson, R. M. Forbes, K. Wyser,
and M. D. Zelinka, 2013: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
novel-technique-diagnose-spatio-temporal-impact-convective-systems"
rel="nofollow" target="_blank">A Novel Technique to Diagnose the
Spatio-Temporal  Impact of Convective Systems</a></li>

<li>Qu, X., A. Hall, S. A. Klein, and P. M. Caldwell, 2013: <a href="
http://www.climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/marine
-low-cloud-cover-likely-decrease-21st-century" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank"> Marine Low Cloud Cover is Likely to Decrease in the
21st Century</a> </li>

<li> Grise, K. M., L. M Polvani, G. Tselioudis, Y. Wu, and M. D Zelinka,
2013: <a
href="http://www.climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
global-warming-caused-ozone-hole-indirect-effect" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank">Global Warming Caused by the Ozone Hole "Indirect
Effect" </a></li>


<li> Caldwell, P. M., Y. Zhang and S. A. Klein, 2013: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
climate-models-slightly-overestimate-global-warming-underestimating-
future-low" rel="nofollow" target="_blank"> Climate Models Slightly
Overestimate Global Warming by Underestimating Future Low
Cloudiness</a></li>

<li> Klein, S. A., Y. Zhang, M. D. Zelinka, R. N. Pincus, J. Boyle, and
P. J. Gleckler, 2013: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
climate-model-simulations-clouds-are-improving" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank"> Climate Model Simulations of Clouds are Improving" </a>
</li>

<li> Qu, X. and A. Hall, 2013: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
spread-snow-albedo-feedback-has-not-narrowed-cmip5-ensemble"
rel="nofollow" target="_blank">The Spread in Snow-Albedo Feedback has
not Narrowed in the CMIP5 Ensemble </a> </li>

<li> Zelinka, M. D., S. A. Klein, K. E. Taylor, T. Andrews, M. J. Webb,
J. M. Gregory, and P. M. Forster, 2013: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
double-trouble-cloud-feedbacks-and-rapid-adjustments-co2-are-positive-
current" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Double Trouble: Cloud Feedbacks
and Rapid Adjustments To CO2 are Positive in Current GCMS </a></li>

</ul>



<h4> 2012</h4>

<ul>

<li> Zelinka, M. D., S. A. Klein, and D. L. Hartmann, 2012a: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
novel-technique-diagnose-and-partition-cloud-feedbacks" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank"> A Novel Technique to Diagnose and Partition Cloud
Feedbacks</a> </li>

<li> Zelinka, M. D., S. A. Klein, and D. L. Hartmann, 2012b: <a
href="http://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/research-highlights/
illuminating-processes-contributing-cloud-feedback" rel="nofollow"
target="_blank">Illuminating the Processes Contributing to Cloud
Feedback </a> </li>

</ul>
