--- 
layout: cloud_feedbacks 
title: Cloud Feedbacks 
---

# Identifying Robust Cloud Feedbacks in Observations and Models 

![Average longwave (LW), shortwave (SW), and net cloud feedbacks as
simulated by global climate
models]({{site.baseurl}}/projects/cloud_feedbacks/cloud_feedback_200h.
png)

---


## Introduction

For more than 30 years, scientists have known that the inability to
predict how clouds will respond to a climate change hinders a confident
prediction of the magnitude of global warming resulting from a given
increase in greenhouse gases. As a result, we are not able to
confidently identify the magnitude of carbon emission reductions
necessary to avoid dangerous anthropogenic interference in the climate
system. Thus it is imperative to perform research aimed at reducing the
uncertainty range associated with the response of clouds to a warming of
the planet, also known as the "cloud feedback".

To reduce the substantial uncertainties associated with long-term
climate-change, a team of researchers at Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory and the University of California at Los Angeles are working
to reduce these uncertainties by identifying robust cloud feedbacks in
today's climate models and constraining them with available
observations. The team scrutinizes the results from simulations of
future climate made by the most recent climate models assessed by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to answer a variety of
questions:

## Which cloud types matter for cloud feedback?

Cloud feedbacks are extremely variable between different climate models.
However, it is not always clear what is the relative contribution of
cloud types from various regions to the global mean cloud feedback and
its inter-model spread. Researchers in this project have developed novel
techniques to separate the contribution of different cloud types and
have found that cloud feedbacks are not the result of a single cloud
type but that we must consider the feedbacks from many cloud types
including low clouds, high clouds, mid-latitude clouds and polar clouds.

## What aspects of cloud feedback can be constrained with observations we have today?

A key aspect of the project is the identification of cloud feedbacks
where similarities are found in simulations of both current-climate
variability and of projected climate change (so called "timescale
invariant feedbacks"). For example, if fluctuations of clouds with
day-to-day or season-to-season variations of temperature are similar to
those shown over climate change time-scales, we could use observations
from the current climate to constrain cloud feedbacks. Researchers are
working to identify which cloud types exhibit time-scale invariance as
well as the observations that can quantitatively constrain these
feedbacks.

## What physical processes contribute to cloud feedback and what feedbacks are correct?

Our confidence in any given cloud feedback is dependent on our ability
to understand the physical processes from which the feedbacks result and
our confidence in those processes. Researchers are working towards
identifying the physical mechanisms of various feedbacks simulated by
complex climate models and critiquing their realism. One technique to
accomplish this is the application of more realistic models of cloud
processes to the changes in the large-scale environment predicted by
global climate models.

This Cloud Feedback project is supported by the Regional and Global Model Analysis
([RGMA](https://climatemodeling.science.energy.gov/program/regional-global-model-analysis)) Program of the U.S. Department of Energy's Office of Science Biological and Environmental Research ([BER](https://www.energy.gov/science/ber/biological-and-environmental-research)).

